PSY201 EXAM 01 STUDY GUIDE

1) What is the general definition of cognition?
	The mental processes involved in perception, attention, memory, reasoning, and problem solving.

2) With what perspective was Watson associated? Any criticisms to his perspective?
	Behaviorism (stimulus -> response model). One dimensional approach that does not account for
	internal influences like mood, thoughts, or feelings.

3) What is cognitive psychology?
	The science of how the brain processes information and generates thought and perception

4) Describe cognition as a 'complex' process. What does it involve?
	Many cognitive processes are hidden from view, occur very rapidly, and are difficult to
	directly observe. We are constantly perceiving, using memory, paying attention, reasoning.

5) Theoretical and practical reasons for the study of cognition?
	Theoretical: Discover processes and abilities that help us mentally represent information
		understand memory, cognitive distoritions, language acquisition. Learn how to predict
		how we learn, make decisions, and solve problems.
	Practical: Undestand how to overcome biased thinking. Study brain functions and disorders that
		impair thinging. Understand effects of imagery on cognitive ability, memory, emotion,
		and awareness. AI!

6) What does it mean to say that humans are 'information processors'?
	environment provides data, some information is selected for processing, behavioral impact, etc.

7) What are mental representations? How does this contrast with mental processing?
	mental representations are the format used to represent concepts and the content
	mental processing is the way we process the input as mental output

8) Describe Wundt's contributions to the field of cognition. How did this later influence other researchers?
	Established first psychological research laboratory. Many early psychologists started in his lab.

9) Describe Functionalism:
	a mental state is determined by its relation to sensory stimulations, other mental states, or behavior.

10) Difference between functionalism and behaviorism?
	Behaviorism doesn't believe in mental states and focuses on the external behavior of human beings.
	
11) Gestalt stuff I already know

12) What role did the rise of AI research and linguistics play in terms of shaping cognitive psychology?
	a need for understanding human-technology interfaces and cross-cultural language development,
	along with the increased dissatisfaction with behaviorism showed mental processes/structures can
	be revealed, studied, and predicted through proper observation and measurement.

13) Cognitive revolution?
	increased satisfaction with behaviorism, convergence of several fields during WWII and the above.

14) What is phrenology? What aspects are flawed? What good came from it?
	Phrenology is the detailed study of the shape and size of the cranum as a indicator of character
	and mental abilities.

15) Serial search versus parallel search:
	Serial Search compares a memory to a target stimulus one at a time, while parallel processing carries our multiple operations at the same time. Serial stops as soon as target is found, generating a response. Parallel processing is like vision: color, motion, shape, and depth.

16) What is brain localization? What evidence supports this?
	The idea that different parts of the brain do different things. Phineas Gage.

17) Major lobes of the brain and the role of the cerebellum:
	Frontal Lobe: motor function, problem solving, memory, language, social behavior, etc.
	Parietal Lobe: processing sensory information, visual information, language, math, etc.
	Occipital Lobe: visual processing center.
	Temporal Lobe: auditory processing.
	Cerebellum: spinal chord, voluntary movements, speech, muscular activity in general.

18) Nervous System
	Peripheral NS: Carries information to and from the CNS.
	Central NS: Directs psychological and basic life proceses, responds to stimuli.
	Somatic NS: Transmits sensory information to the CNS and carries out motor commands.
	Automatic NS: basic life functions like heart and responses to stress.
	Sympathetic NS: Readies the body in response to threat (fight/flight).
	Parasympathetic NS: Routine bodily functions and tasks, calms.

19) What is the golgi stain? 
	It is used to visualize nervous tissue under a microscope. Allows us to track connections between neurons and make visible the complex networking structure of the brain/spinal chord

20) How to gather behavioral data?
	Task response time, 
	judgements/ratings,
	protocol collection (observe),
	& localization methods (scans of the brain).

21) What is the ceiling/floor effect? Which is worse?
	ceiling = too easy, floor = too hard.

22) What is the expectancy effect?
	a researcher expects an effect and unconsciously affects the outcome.

24) Attitude accessibility?
	How quickly an attitude is activated from memory, predictive of behavior and how info is processed.

25) WISC card sorting and clock drawing test demonstrate?
	Cognitive impairment and dementia.

26) Scan types, ugh*

27) What is sensation versus perception?
	sensation = detection of physical energy in environment, perception = interpretation of sensory data

28) Difference between data-driven and conceptually-driven?
	data-driven = sensory (bottom-up), conceptually-driven = perception (top-down) 



































