WEEK 3
Primitive and Egyptian Architecture:
Egyptian—The Great Pyramid at Giza is the oldest of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World.

Ancient Near Eastern Architecture:
Iraq—No documentation that the Hanging Gardens of Babylon existed, making it the only one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World that may not have even existed.

Pre-Columbian American Architecture:
Mexico—The Sun pyramid at Teotihuacan and the Great Pyramid at Giza have the same base of 750 feet square, but the Sun pyramid is exactly half as tall.
Peru—An estimated 60 percent of Machu Picchu construction was done underground.

WEEK 4
Architecture in Cambodia:
Siem Reap—Angkor Wat: Constructed in the early 12th century (between 1113 and 1150) Angkor Wat is the largest religious monument in the world.

WEEK 5
Greco-Roman Architecture:
Greece—Parthenon: While the Parthenon is often considered as the greatest example of surviving Doric-style architecture, the simplicity of the building’s form and plan is deceptive to say the least, courtesy of architect-extraordinaire Iktinos. The Parthenon boasts a very fine parabolic upward curvature that allows the monument to decisively shed rainwater while also reinforcing it against earthquakes
Italy—Pantheon: The most fascinating part of the Pantheon is its giant dome, with its famous hole in the top (The eye of the Pantheon, or oculus). The dome was the largest in the world for 1300 years and until today it remains the largest unsupported dome in the world.
Jordan—Tomb in Petra: The best known tomb at Petra is called the “Khazneh,” which is Arabic for the “Treasury.” It is called this because at one time local people believed it contained hidden treasure.

WEEK 6
Asian Architecture:
China—Forbidden City: Each of the 9,999 rooms is decorated with statues. As the importance of each building grows, the number of statues increases. The most important room has a maximum of 10 statues.

Byzantine Architecture:
Turkey—Hagia Sophia in Constantinople: Hagia Sophia served as an Eastern Orthodox Cathedral until 1453 AD when Ottoman Sultan Mehmed II who conquered Istanbul converted it into a mosque. It served as inspiration for many other Ottoman mosques including the Blue Mosque, Süleymaniye Mosque, Rüstem Pasha Mosque, Şehzade Mosque and Kılıç Ali Paşa Mosque.

WEEK 7
Islamic Architecture:
Spain—Alhambra: Most of the buildings on the Alhambra were whitewashed, but today, after years of being baked in the sun, they appear reddish.
Israel—Kubbet es-Sakhra (Dome of the Rock): Most historians concur, the Dome of the Rock was constructed over a period of three years, between 688 – 691 AD. To that end, the structure is the oldest surviving Islamic building from anywhere on the planet. However, in spite of its antiquity, the architecture of the building was considerably influenced by early Christian styles, namely the Byzantine (Eastern Roman) palaces and churches from the nearby areas

WEEK 9
Romanesque Architecture:
Italy—Campanile in Pisa (Leaning Tower of Pisa): If the Republic of Pisa hadn’t been at war with Florence, Genoa, and Lucca for nearly an entire century, they would have continued building on the tower before the soil foundation had been allowed to settle. If that had been the case, we surely wouldn’t have the Leaning Tower of Pisa that we have today. In fact, we might not even have it at all – it might have just collapsed completely!
British Isles—Windsor Castle: The castle  was built to replace a Saxon Palace by William the Conqueror in 1070 – it took 16 years to complete!   The Castle was first build in wood and then upgraded to stone by Henry 1st 2nd and 3rd who continued the building.

WEEK 10
Gothic Architecture:
France—La Sainte Chapelle: Sainte Chapelle could be considered a huge reliquary built to house the relics of the Crucifixion. In 1239, Saint Louis bought the crown of thorns from Venetian merchants for 135,000 Pounds. Fragments of the Holy Cross fragments as well as instruments of torture were bought from Baudoin II, king of Jerusalem in 1241.

Late Medieval Architecture:
Italy—Florence Cathedral (S. Maria del Fiore): One of the reasons that Il Duomo is considered one of the top things to do in Florence Italy is the size. This cathedral is considered the third largest church in the entire world based on nave size. The nave is just slightly less than one hundred and fifty meters in size, and is smaller only than the ones in St. Paul’s and St. Peter’s cathedrals.

WEEK 11
Renaissance Architecture:
Italy—St. Peter's in Rome: The imposing church you see today isn’t the original basilica of St. Peter. It’s actually… number two! The reason? The original church was built in the 4th century by Emperor Constantine, the Roman empire’s first Christian emperor, on the spot where St. Peter was thought to be buried. By the early Renaissance, though, the (literally) ancient church was in serious disrepair. But it took a guy like Pope Julius II (someone with a strong enough personality to go head-to-head with curmudgeonly Michelangelo!) to make the decision to tear down the entire thing and build a new one.
France—The Louvre (Palais du Louvre): The Louvre began life in the late 12th century when Philip II (or Philip Augustus), the first person to be officially known as the King of France and one of medieval Europe’s most successful rulers, began construction on a defensive outpost near what was then the western border of Paris, along the bank of the River Seine. Designed to prevent invasions from the north, the arsenal included bastions at each corner, a surrounding moat and a massive, 98-foot-tall fortified tower, or keep, at its center. In the 14th century, with the city having spread far beyond its borders during Philip’s reign, a new series of defenses was constructed on the outskirts of Paris, and the fortress ceased to be used for defensive purposes. Today, visitors to the Louvre can view the remains of part of the fortress’ medieval masonry in the 13th century Salle Basse, or Lower Hall.

WEEK 12
Late Renaissance Architecture:
France—Palais de Versailles: The huge gardens were just as spectacular as the palace itself. They covered over 30,000 acres and featured a mile long canal, 400 sculptures and 1,400 fountains.
WEEK 13
Early Victorian Architecture:
Britain—Westminster Palace and Big Ben: The bell itself is officially called the “Great Bell”, but gets its nickname from Sir Benjamin Hall, who became the first Commissioner of Public Works in 1855 and oversaw the later stages of the rebuilding of the Houses of Parliament. The previous Palace of Westminster had burned down as a result of the Great Fire of 1834. The Great Bell was cast in 1858 and has Sir Hall’s name inscribed upon it. The “big” part comes from the fact that the bell weighs 16 tons (or 13.4 tonnes) and is about 7 feet tall.
France—Eiffel Tower: The Eiffel Tower was going to be demolished in 1909, but was saved because it was repurpose:d as a giant radio antenna.

Art Nouveau:
Spain—La Sagrada Familia: Construction of La Sagrada Familia began in 1882 and is still underway. It is expected to be completed in 2041. It was originally conceived by Catalan publisher Josep Bocabella symbolic of the revolutionary ideas becoming increasingly apparent in the city of Barcelona. Work began by public subscription with architect Francesc de Paula Villar's design-a traditional neo-Gothic style. When the two could not agree, Antoní Gaudí took over construction.

WEEK 14
Art Deco:
USA—Empire State Building: Originally, the 17-story spire was supposed to be a dirigible anchor and passenger gate. The current top observation deck (at 1,250 feet!) is enclosed, but in the original plans, it was an outdoor platform where passengers loaded on and off trans-Atlantic dirigibles parked over midtown. After high winds nearly led to catastrophe, the plan was abandoned.

Mega Structures:
USA—Golden Gate Bridge: Because the War Department owned the land on both sides of the strait, it had to authorize the construction of the bridge. A temporary construction permit was granted on December 24, 1924, and a final permit was issued on August 11, 1930.
Ireland—The RMS Titanic: Harland and Wolff had to demolish three existing slipways and build two new ones, the biggest ever constructed up to that time, to accommodate the giant ships.























